>> Kyle Simpson: We've built our own
web server and static file server and
API endpoint.
But the truth is, you're almost
certainly gonna be working with
one of those more well known frameworks.
And I thought it would be a good idea to
at least get you a little bit of exposure
to probably the most well known of those,
which is Express.js.
So in exercise six, we're gonna just
switch over everything that we were doing
on the server side from doing a kind
of manually to using Express.js.
I've already got express installed for
you,
which is actually a good thing because
if you try to do npn install express,
you'll see the download is
something like 300 packages.
It's kind of got a lot of dependencies.
But anyway, we've got express
already installed for you.
And we are gonna start wiring
it up to using express.
The way express works is you
call the express function
and you can pass some config but
we don't need to.
And you get back a thing which
is almost always called app.
So that represents your express app,
this thing called app.
And you may wonder what is app,
is it some kind of object,
is it instantiation of a class?
To understand what app is,
let's see how we use it.
We actually use app,
by passing it to our HTTP server instance.
If you remember from the previous
exercise, what did we pass
to create server, we passed the function
handle request that we defined.
So in other words, app is an automatically
generated handle request function.
That receives req request and
response streams and handles them.
And in fact, inside of that app function,
if you were open up its guts and look at
it, is basically just going to be a fancy
for loop with some if statements in it.
Okay, so we are not going to define and
handle requests anymore because
that's being done for us by Express.
But we need we do need
to configure Express so
that it knows what routes we wanna use.
So, we are going to do that by
defining routes for Express.
I'm going to create a function
called define routes.
>> Kyle Simpson: We'll actually move
this stuff probably into there.
>> Kyle Simpson: And then we'll just
call that defineRoutes function.
So, that's kind of like
the placeholder for
our handle request and
it's the placeholder for
our node's static alias, cuz we're
gonna be defining all these routes.
And just for hint's sake, so
that it's easier for copy and
pasting, these are the alias
routes that we set up previously when
we were using node's static alias.
We're going to need to do
the equivalent of those with express.
So how do we do that?
Well first off we have to tell app,
which is again it's our function object.
But we've got to tell it
what routes to set up.
And we do that by defining,
in express.js terms, we do that by
defining something called a middleware.
And that's a fancy way of basically just
saying a function that gets called if
the incoming request matches
some particular criteria.
So we're gonna set up a couple of
different middlewares here that
are the equivalent of these
routes that we were handling.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
first let's handle our API endpoint.
You recall that we had,
we wanted to handle our API endpoint.
Let's call app.get, that's how we tell it
that we wanna handle inbound get requests.
And we're gonna give it a URL,
in this case, it's gonna be a string,
we could have also done
a regular expression.
Remember we called it get-records.
And if an incoming request matches
that we're going to receive req and
res
>> Kyle Simpson: And we want for
this route to do exactly the same
thing as it was doing in ex5,
which was we were getting the records.
So I'm gonna make this an async
function just to be safe.
We're gonna get the records from,
get all records, and
then we're going to res.writeHead.
>> Kyle Simpson: That's
basically the exact
same code that we did in EX5.
And there are a whole wide range
of plugins that express provides.
And I know that there are a couple
of out a couple of them out there,
which specifically give you a little
bit of syntactic sugar for doing, say,
a JSON response like this.
You don't have to come up with your
own content type header or whatever.
But what you're gonna find with express
is that what ships out of the box,
even though there's a ton of dependencies,
what ships out of the box doesn't even
really do some of these basic things.
You end up having to go searching
around the ecosystem for
somebody having written
a plugin to do XYZ.
So, you end up using Express plus
a variety of Express plugins for
doing these things.
And just to save time in
terms of our learning,
we're just gonna end up repeating things.
But the point I want you to get here is
that instead of writing an if statement
somewhere, we declaratively state
the route by calling app.get.
And Express will internally match
to make sure that any get methods
with that URL will call this function.